## Java Features

1. Functional Interface:
Functional interfaces represent single abstract methods and are essential for working with lambda expressions. Java 8 introduced several new functional interfaces in the java.util.function package, such as Predicate, Function, and Consumer.

2. @FunctionalInterface Annotation: While not strictly required, it's a good practice to annotate functional interfaces with @FunctionalInterface annotation to indicate their intended use.

        @FunctionalInterface
        interface MyFunctionalInterface {
            void doSomething(int x, int y); // Abstract method
        }

3. Lambda Expressions: Lambda expressions provide a concise way to represent instances of functional interfaces. They allow you to define inline implementations of the abstract method.

        MyFunctionalInterface myFunc = (x, y) -> {
        System.out.println("Sum: " + (x + y));
        };

4. Method References: Method references provide a way to refer to methods or constructors without invoking them. They can be used as shorthand for lambda expressions when the target method matches the signature of the abstract method in the functional interface.

        MyFunctionalInterface myFunc = MyClass::staticMethod;
     -------------------------------------------------------------------------
        Consumer<String> lambdaConsumer = (str) -> System.out.println(str);

        // Using method reference
        Consumer<String> referenceConsumer = System.out::println;

        // Test with input
        lambdaConsumer.accept("Lambda Expression");
        referenceConsumer.accept("Method Reference");

5. Types of Funcional Interface:

    a. Consumer: Represents an operation that accepts a single input and returns no result. It's often used for side-effect operations.

            @FunctionalInterface
             interface Consumer<T> {
                 void accept(T t);
              }

          Consumer<String> printName = name -> System.out.println("Hello, " + name)
            
    b. Supplier: Represents a supplier of results. It doesn't accept any input but produces a result.

            @FunctionalInterface
            interface Supplier<T> {
                    T get();
        }

        Example:

        Supplier<Integer> randomNumberSupplier = () -> {
            Random random = new Random();
            return random.nextInt(100) + 1; // Generate a random number between 1 and 100
        };

        // Get and print a random number from the supplier
        int randomNumber = randomNumberSupplier.get();

    
    c. Function: Represents a function that accepts one argument and produces a result.

        @FunctionalInterface
        interface Function<T, R> {
              R apply(T t);
        }

    d. Predicate: Represents a predicate (boolean-valued function) of one argument.

        @FunctionalInterface
            interface Predicate<T> {
            boolean test(T t);
    }

        Predicate<Integer> isEven = num -> num % 2 == 0;

        // Test the predicate
        System.out.println(isEven.test(5)); // Output: false
        System.out.println(isEven.test(10)); /

    e. UnaryOperator: Represents an operation on a single operand that produces a result of the same type as its operand. It is tpe of Funtion. Return type should be same.

        @FunctionalInterface
        interface UnaryOperator<T> extends Function<T, T> {
    }

        UnaryOperator<Integer> square = num -> num * num;

        // Apply the UnaryOperator
        System.out.println(square.apply(5)); // Output: 25

    f. BinaryOperator: Represents an operation upon two operands of the same type, producing a result of the same type as the operands. Type of Function. Return type should be same.

            @FunctionalInterface
             interface BinaryOperator<T> {
            T apply(T t1, T t2);
        }

        BinaryOperator<Integer> max = (a, b) -> a > b ? a : b;

        // Apply the BinaryOperator
        System.out.println(max.apply(5, 10)); // Output: 10

    g. BiFunction: Represents a function that accepts two arguments and produces a result.

        BiFunction<String, String, String> concatenate = (str1, str2) -> str1 + str2;

        // Apply the BiFunction
        String result = concatenate.apply("Hello, ", "world!");

6. Lambda Expressions: Lambda expressions provide a concise way to represent anonymous functions or closures. They facilitate functional programming in Java and are commonly used with streams and functional interfaces.

7. Stream API: The Stream API introduced a new abstraction for processing collections of data in a functional style. Streams allow for efficient and parallel processing of data using functional operations such as map, filter, and reduce.

Examples:

   names.stream()
             .filter(name -> name.startsWith("A"))
             .forEach(System.out::println);


     names.stream()
             .map(String::length)
             .forEach(System.out::println);

    numbers.stream()
                .reduce(0, Integer::sum);

     List<String> filteredNames = names.stream()
                                          .filter(name -> name.startsWith("A"))
                                          .collect(Collectors.toList());

8. Optional: The Optional class provides a container object that may or may not contain a non-null value. It helps to avoid NullPointerExceptions by explicitly handling the absence of a value.

9. var names = new ArrayList<String>();
The compiler infers the type ArrayList<String> from the initialization expression new ArrayList<String>(), so you don't need to explicitly specify it.

10. Java 11 introduced a new HTTP client API in the java.net.http package, providing a modern and asynchronous approach to making HTTP requests and handling responses.

11. Functional Programming: In functional programming, you break down your program into small, easy-to-understand pieces called functions. These functions take some information (like numbers or text), process it, and give you an answer (like a sum or a modified piece of text). They follow principles like:

    a. Immutability: Instead of modifying existing data, new data structures are created with modifications. 
    b. Pure functiona:  Pure functions are functions that always return the same output for the same input and have no side effects. They do not modify state or variables outside their scope, making them predictable and easier to reason about.

12. Compile Time Polymorphism: Compile-time polymorphism refers to polymorphic behavior that is resolved during compile time. It is achieved through method overloading and operator overloading.

13. Runtime polymorphism refers to polymorphic behavior that is resolved during runtime. It is achieved through method overriding and dynamic method dispatch.


## SQL Queries

1. SELECT * FROM employees;

2. INSERT INTO customers (name, email) VALUES ('John Doe', 'john@example.com');

3. UPDATE products SET price = 15.99 WHERE id = 123;

4. DELETE FROM orders WHERE id = 456;

5. CREATE TABLE products (
    id INT AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY KEY,
    name VARCHAR(255),
    price DECIMAL(10, 2)
);

6. ALTER TABLE customers ADD COLUMN phone VARCHAR(20);

7. DROP TABLE products;

8. SELECT DISTINCT category FROM products;

9. SELECT * FROM employees ORDER BY salary DESC;

10. SELECT department, COUNT(*) FROM employees GROUP BY department;

11. SELECT department, COUNT(*) FROM employees GROUP BY department HAVING COUNT(*) > 5;

12. SELECT customers.name, orders.product_id 
FROM customers
INNER JOIN orders ON customers.id = orders.customer_id;

13. SELECT * FROM products WHERE name LIKE '%apple%';

14. SELECT * FROM products WHERE category IN ('Electronics', 'Appliances');

15. SELECT DISTINCT salary 
FROM employees 
ORDER BY salary DESC 
LIMIT 1 OFFSET 1;

16. SELECT MAX(salary) AS largest_salary
FROM employees;

17. Atomicity, consistency, isolation, and durability (ACID),