## API Gateway

1. An API management tool that sits between a client and a collection of backend services.

2.  It also has other responsibilities such as authentication, monitoring, load balancing, caching, throttling, logging, etc.

3. It is a single entry point into a system that encapsulates the internal system architecture and provides an API that is tailored to each client.

4. Below are some desired features of an API Gateway:
    a. Authentication and Authorization
    b. Service Registry
    c. caching
    d. Rate limiting and throttling
    e. Tracing and logging.
    f. Versioning
    g. Routing

5. The primary function of the backend for the frontend pattern is to get the required data from the appropriate service, format the data, and sent it to the frontend.
GraphQL performs really well as a backend for frontend (BFF)

6. Implementing api gateway is spring boot: Zuul proxy(not bakward compatible), Netflix eureka + Spring cloud gateway.
@EnableDiscoveryClient, @EnableEurekaServer.

7. Cloud level api gateway:Amazon API Gateway, Azure Api gateway, Apigee API Gateway.

8. API gateway takes all API calls from clients, then routes them to the appropriate microservice with request routing, composition, and protocol translation

## Load Balancer

1. Focus on distributing traffic across clsuter of servers t ensure responsiveness, availability.'

2. LB also keeps track of the status of all the resources while distributing requests.

3. By balancing application requests across multiple servers, a load balancer reduces individual server load and prevents any one application server from becoming a single point of failure, thus improving overall application availability and responsiveness.

4. We can add LBs at three places:
     Between the user and the web server
     Between web servers and an internal platform layer, like application servers or
    cache servers
     Between internal platform layer and database.

5. Load balancing makes it easier for system administrators to handle incoming requests while decreasing wait time for users.

6. Smart load balancers provide benefits like predictive analytics that determine traffic bottlenecks before they happen.

7. How does the load balancer choose the backend server?
    a. Check if servers are healthy, then run an efficient algorithm to select the server to send request from the list of healthy sever.
    b. Health checks are must for load balancer to send request to healthy servers.

8. Following ways are generally adopted by load balancer as algorithm:
    a. Least connection server: Server with least number of connection.
    b. Least Response Time: Server with less connection and least avg response time.
    c. Round robin connection: The next healthy server is selected.
    d. Weighted Round Robin Algo: The next healthy server which has more weight is slected. Every server is ssigned some weight.
    e. Least Bandwidth : Server with least number of traffic in mbps.
    d. IP Hash: Under this method, a hash of the IP address of the client is calculated to redirect the request to a server.

9. Passive and active load balancing: To avoid single point failure wrt load balancer, a load balancer is connected  with the active load balancer that is distibuting traffic. Both keeps checking each other's health, if aive goes down, then passive takes the role of active.

10. Ways to implement load baancers: 
        a. Hardware Load bLanacers: Cisco Application Control Engine
        b. Software Load balanccers: Run on vms: Envoy, Nginx
        c. CDN:  CDNs distribute content across a network of servers located in various data centers worldwide. They cache static content and route user requests to the nearest server, reducing latency and offloading traffic from origin servers. CDNs often include built-in load balancing capabilities.
        d. Dynamic load balancer: With increase and decrease in traffic, lb dynamically handle the routing of request to server.
        e. DNS Load Balancing: DNS-based load balancing distributes incoming traffic by resolving domain names to multiple IP addresses. DNS servers return different IP addresses in a round-robin fashion or based on geographic proximity, allowing clients to connect to different servers for load distribution.

## Sharding 

 1. Below are three of the most popular schemes used by various large scale applications:
    
    a. Horizontal Scaling: In this scheme, we put different rows into different
    tables. For example, if we are storing different places in a table, we can decide that
    locations with ZIP codes less than 10000 are stored in one table and places with ZIP
    codes greater than 10000 are stored in a separate table. 
    The value whose range is used for sharding isn’t chosen carefully, then the partitioning scheme will lead to unbalanced servers. 

    b. Vertical Scaling: We store data in different table based on different features. Example users, orders, etc
    The main problem with this approach is that if our application experiences additional growth, then it may be necessary to further partition a feature specific DB across various servers.

    c. Directory based partitioning: Data is divided into partitions based on a specific range of values. Each partition corresponds to a directory or folder in the underlying file system, hence the name "directory-based partitioning." 

    ALTER TABLE orders
    ADD PARTITION p2022_01 VALUES LESS THAN (2022, 2),
    ADD PARTITION p2022_02 VALUES LESS THAN (2022, 3),
    ADD PARTITION p2022_03 VALUES LESS THAN (2022, 4),
    ...
    ADD PARTITION p2023_01 VALUES LESS THAN (2023, 2);

    Over time, as new data is added to the orders table, the database automatically manages the partitions, including the creation of new partitions for future months. 
    The database engine handles the routing of the query to the appropriate partitions based on the query conditions, and then retrieves and combines the results from those partitions.
    
    d. To find out where a particular data entity resides, we query the directory server that holds the mapping between each tuple key to its DB server. This loosely coupled approach means we can perform tasks like adding servers to the DB pool or changing our partitioning scheme without having an impact on the application.

2. Partion Criteria:

    a. Hashing based: Basedon hash value applied on one key we decide wihich db. COnsistent hashing is preferred.
    b. List Based partitioning: Each partition is assigned a list of values, Some particular key decides which list or db it should enter. 
    We can decide all users living in Iceland, Norway, Sweden, Finland, or Denmark will be stored in a partition for the Nordic countries.
    c. Round Robin: n partitions divided among i tuple= n%i
    d. Composite hashing: Combination of 2 other types like First list based and then hashing. Consistent hashing could be considered a composite of hash and list partitioning where the hash reduces the key space to a size that can be listed.

3. Disadvantage of Sharding:

    a. Joins and Denormalization: Performing joins on a database which is running on one server is straightforward, but once a database is partitioned and spread across multiple machines it is often not feasible to perform joins that span database shards.
    Such joins will not be performance efficient since data has to be compiled from multiple servers.

    b. Referntial Integrity: Trying to enforce data integrity constraints such as foreign keys in a sharded database can be extremely difficult. Most of RDBMS do not support foreign keys constraints across databases on
    different database servers.

    c. Rebalancing: If db is not sharded properly we again need to shard when new load is added
    Prefered solution is directory based partitioning.


## Indexes

1. The goal of creating an index on a particular table in a database is to make it faster to
search through the table and find the row or rows that we want.

        CREATE INDEX idx_email ON customers (email);

        @Entity
        public class Customer {

        @Id
        private Long id;

        @Index(name = "idx_email")
        private String email;

        // Getters and setters
        }

2.  Indexes can be created using one or more columns of a database table, providing the basis for both rapid random lookups and efficient access of ordered records.

3. Simply saying, an index is a data structure that can be perceived as a table of contents that points us to the location where actual data lives.

4. When we create an index on a column of a table, we store that column and a pointer to the whole row in
the index.

5. Disadvantage: An index can dramatically speed up data retrieval but may itself be large due to the additional keys, which slow down data insertion & update.

6. When adding rows or making updates to existing rows for a table with an active index, we not only have to write the data but also have to update the index. This will
decrease the write performance

## Sql vs NoSql

1. Sql stores data in rows and columns. Data structure/schema is fixed. Relations can be establishedin Sql using joins. The schema can be altered later, but it involves modifying the whole database and going offline.
Example: Mysql Postgre Sql

2. NoSql: No fixed data structure. Data is not stored in rows and columns. Example : MongoDB, CouchD

3. Types of NoSql db:

    a. Key Value.
    b. Document Based data: Data stored in document style and each document contains different type of structure.
    c. Graph: Stores data whose relationship can be displayed in graph style.

4. Querying: SQL databases use SQL (structured query language) for defining and manipulating the data, which is very powerful. In a NoSQL database, queries are focused on a collection of documents. Sometimes it is also called UnQL (Unstructured Query Language). Different databases have different syntax for using UnQL.

5. Scalability: Sql dtabases are easy to scale vertically which are much more expensive. It becomes tought to scale sql databases horizontally.
NoSql databases are easy to scale horizontally. So they are cost effective.

6. It is difficult to shard mql databases is because it compromise ACID properties and Integrity of data in sql. Querying data becomes tough in sql databases.

7.  When it comes to data reliability and safe guarantee of performing transactions, SQL databases are still the better bet. Most of the NoSQL solutions sacrifice ACID compliance for performance and scalability.

8. Disadvantage of Sql: Scaling horizontally is tough. NoSql supports rapid dev ans it does not required to be prepped ahead of time. There are chances of downtime if there is frequesnt changes in structure of data.



