## Scaling Distributed System

1. Following features are considered important or good practice to scale a system:
        a. Modularity: Making system loosly coupled into smalled individual system.
        b. Database scaling: Data sharding or diving data and handling data load ona single db.
        c. Scale server: Horizontal/Vertcal scaling.
        d. Geo distribution: Scale in different regions as per load rather than focusing on 1 region.
        e. Automation: Automae the provisioning, deployment o system.
        f. Asyncronous processing: Separate out the processing of incoming request from server using API Gateway.
        g. Load Balancer: To distribute load as per traffic by increasing and decreasing server.
        h. Replication and regular backup: Create repliates of db to hande read load on one db and manage regular backup.
        i. Caching: Reduce operations with db using caching for frequesntly accessed data.

2. Vertical scaling: To increase memory, space, cpu of server/db. 

3. Limitation of vertical scaling: There is a max limit to how much a system can grow in terms of cpu,memory,etc.

4. Horizontal Scaling: Increasing number of servers/db rather than increasing size.

5. Using load balancer and distributing load is easier in case of Sateful system as data can be distributed easily based on last server info.

6. In stateless system we have CAP threorem issue as we us distributed cache to store client information.

7. CAP theorem: At a time we can only achieve only 2 out of the following three: Consistency, Availibilty, Partition Tolerance. When we focus on consistency and partition tolernace, the server with failure is shutdown to maintain consistency otherwise, the failed or server that lost communication will have unconsistent data. hat case availbility is affected. If we focus on having availability and partition tolerance, then the server thatlost communication is still up with inconsistent data. If we focus on availability and consistency then the server cannot lose its communication.

8. Stateful server: Is the server that stores the client authorization data. So every time the requests form same client is route to same server, hence load is not equall distributed. Also, there is no fault tolerenace in case of failure.

9. Stateless server: Is the server that does not store client info, there is no dependency on sticky session data,instead distributed cache like Redis is used to store client of different instances of same server. This ensures that load balancer can distribute load equally.
    Cache eviction depends on various factors like: cache size, client expiration, cache validation rule.

10. Database scaling can be taken care usig sharding and caching. For static data CDN is a good option.

11. Sharding model should be chosen carefully, either in alphabetical order, based on place, hashing, consistent hashing.

12. Sharding means to distribute data in different databases.

13. To ensure availability, it is important to ensure replications and also protect from single point of failure.

14. With replications, regular backup is equally important to maintain consistency and avoid single point of failure.

15. Availability focuses on avoiding single point of failure and make system more relaible whereas sacalability focuses on increasing performance by reducing latency and manage load.

16. Message queues and API Gateway play an important role in managing asynchronous data processing. 

17. Health monitoring is imporant for ensuring availabilty.
